# MODEL3897771820: MODEL3897771820

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL3897771820.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL3897771820.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model originates from the [Cell Cycle
Database](http://www.itb.cnr.it/cellcycle/) . It is described in:  
**Analysis of a generic model of eukaryotic cell-cycle regulation.** _Csikász-Nagy A , Battogtokh D , Chen KC , Novák B , Tyson JJ_ Biophys. J. [2006 Jun],90(12 ):4361-79   
PMID: [16581849](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16581849)  
Abstract:  
We propose a protein interaction network for the regulation of DNA synthesis
and mitosis that emphasizes the universality of the regulatory system among
eukaryotic cells. The idiosyncrasies of cell cycle regulation in particular
organisms can be attributed, we claim, to specific settings of rate constants
in the dynamic network of chemical reactions. The values of these rate
constants are determined ultimately by the genetic makeup of an organism. To
support these claims, we convert the reaction mechanism into a set of
governing kinetic equations and provide parameter values (specific to budding
yeast, fission yeast, frog eggs, and mammalian cells) that account for many
curious features of cell cycle regulation in these organisms. Using one-
parameter bifurcation diagrams, we show how overall cell growth drives
progression through the cell cycle, how cell-size homeostasis can be achieved
by two different strategies, and how mutations remodel bifurcation diagrams
and create unusual cell-division phenotypes. The relation between gene dosage
and phenotype can be summarized compactly in two-parameter bifurcation
diagrams. Our approach provides a theoretical framework in which to understand
both the universality and particularity of cell cycle regulation, and to
construct, in modular fashion, increasingly complex models of the networks
controlling cell growth and division.

  

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

  

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


